---
title: "Transfer"

category:
    - FAQ
    - admission
    - prospective
    - new
---
<h1>CHANGE</h1>
Regardless of where you may have taken classes in the past, bring it all to us. We’ll work with you to review any prior learning, maximize your credits, and plan your path to graduation.

You’ll get personal support at Southeast to answer any questions and help guide you
through the process. Here’s everything we’ll need to get started:

<li aria-level="1"><strong>Application for admission. </strong>
The application costs nothing to submit and requires no essay to complete. 
<a href="https://app.semoadmissions.org/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Fill one
out today</a> to get the process moving.</li>

<li aria-level="1"><strong>Official transcripts from all colleges and universities
                                        attended. </strong>Send us your academic record from any institution of higher
                                    learning you may have attended. We’ll take a look and work to apply as much as
                                    possible toward your Southeast degree.</li>

<h3>Criteria for Admission as a Transfer Student</h3>
<ul>
<li aria-level="1">Cumulative 2.0 college GPA</li>
                                <li aria-level="1">24 or more academic, transferable college hours or meet beginning
                                    freshman admission requirements</li> </ul>
<h3 class="topic_title">Transfer Mentor Program</h3>
<p>Plan and track your Southeast degree from your first semester of college with a professional
                        transfer mentor: You’ll do that here. The transfer mentor will provide you with personal support
                        while you are enrolled at a community college and through your first semester of enrollment at
                        Southeast.</p>
        
[Transfer Student](https://cscygraduates.github.io/AskRowdy-Jekyll/new-students/admission.html )
