---
title: "Appeal Process"
subtitle: "Subsection"
faqselect: "current"
categories:
    - current
    - enrollment
    - new
---
##### "Approved by college council 11/10/22"

#### Graduation Requirements
Students will graduate with an MSACS or MSCY degree providing ALL the following criteria are met:

1. An overall cumulative GPA of 3.00 or above.
2. A grade of ‘C’ or better in the core, elective courses with CS/CY prefixes.
3. A grade of ‘B’ or better on a maximum of 6 hours related elective courses [if any] from other Southeast Missouri State
University Departments with the approval of the Graduate Coordinator.
4. A grade of ‘B’ or better on a maximum of 12 hours of related transfer credit that is less than 6 years old [if any] from other universities with the approval of the Graduate Coordinator.

#### Student rights:

1. A student can appeal a grade and needs to follow the procedure listed at <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/studev_gradeappealprocedures_2012.pdf" target="blank">Microsoft Word - Grade Appeal Procedures.doc (semo.edu).</a> The student needs to contact The office of Dean of Students for any questions related to grade change. PHONE: (573) 651-2524. EMAIL:  <a href="mailto:deanofstudents@semo.edu">deanofstudents@semo.edu</a>. LOCATION OFFICE: Academic Hall 010 - 011

2. A student can appeal violation of academic dishonesty and needs to follow the procedure listed under ‘Academic Honesty’ and ‘Appeal’ Policies at <a  href="https://semo.edu/student-support/academic-support/registrar/bulletin/policies.html#academic-honesty" target="blank">Academic Policies | SEMO.</a>The student needs to contact The office of Dean of Students for any questions related to appeal. PHONE: (573) 651-2524. EMAIL:  <a href="mailto:deanofstudents@semo.edu">deanofstudents@semo.edu</a>. LOCATION OFFICE: Academic Hall 010 – 011

3. A student who receives a failing grade (F), will be suspended per the guidelines outlined in the <a  href="https://semo.edu/student-support/academic-support/registrar/bulletin/grad-bulletin.html" target="blank">Graduate Bulletin.</a> Students can appeal following the procedure outlined below and for their first failing grade will be allowed to repeat the failed course; If a student receives any additional failing grades, they will need to appeal and appear in front of the departmental graduate committee to present their appeal request.

4. The first semester a student’s GPA drops below 3.0 they will be placed on Beginning Probation (provided they do not receive a failing grade) and can continue to enroll in and take courses. If the student’s GPA remains below 3.0 for a second semester, they will be suspended and have to appeal as outlined below to continue in the program. If a student’s GPA remains below 3.0 for a third semester, they will have to appeal and appear in front of the departmental graduate committee to present their appeal request.
 
5. These guidelines apply to all ACS and CY students regardless of anyone’s citizenship.

#### Policies:

1. If a student receives a suspension letter from the Office of Graduate Studies, the student must meet with his/her advisor to develop a plan for improving their academic performance and complete the <a  href="https://app.smartsheet.com/b/form/3b6bd2ffed7645b6814159f31815097a" target="blank"> appeal form.</a> The appeal process will require the approval from the student’s advisor, graduate coordinator, department chairperson, and Dean of Graduate Studies. Once approved by the advisor, the workflow will automatically progress to the next individual. If the appeal is denied at any level, the student will be notified, and the workflow will stop. The appeal process may take up to 4 weeks.

2. It is the student’s responsibility to include an official professional letter addressed to the Department Chair and Graduate Committee honestly explaining why they were not able to successfully complete the course and what will be different to allow them to be successful the next attempt and moving forward in all classes.

3. If the student needs to appear in front of the graduate committee, his/her dismissal appeal decision will be one of the following:

    a. The student will continue to be dismissed from the program but not the university and he/she cannot reapply to the same program.

    b. The student will be conditionally readmitted to the program. They will be directed to take remedial courses recommended by the course instructor and approved by the graduate committee before taking the failed course. The student will take the failed course in the next semester. If the student fails this course for the third time, they are dismissed from the program but not the university and they cannot reapply to the same program.

    c. The student will be directed to take one semester off (suspended for one semester) and reapply to the program in the following semester.

    d. To learn about how one of these decisions will affect student status, the student needs to contact the Office of International Education and Services. PHONE: (573) 986-6863. EMAIL: international@semo.edu. LOCATION OFFICE: 1025 N. Sprigg.