---
title: Curricular Practical Training 
subtitle: "Subsection"
jobSpecific: "current"
categories:
    - cost
    - job
    - current
    - new
   
---
   
## IES Information

In order for <a href="https://semo.edu/international/" target="blank">International Education and Services</a> **(IES)** to approve CPT, you must be enrolled in a degree required internship course during the semester you will be completing the internship. 

### Duration of CPT

CPT is only granted for **one semester** and you can only work for:

- 20 hours per week during the fall or spring semester
- 40 hours during the summer
- this includes hours of on campus employment

### Full vs part-time CPT

IF internship is for full-time (=40 hours), then you *cannot* take another course. 
IF internship is part-time (=20 hours), then yes you can take couple of courses.

### Documents needed by IES

**(1)** Graduate advisor letter (see below)
**(2)** Employment letter from supervisor. It should include the company name and address and the supervisor’s name, phone and email as well as the dates you will be working.

## Computer Science dept requirements

### We will automatically deny your CPT request if:

1. You have NOT completed at least one semester (fall OR spring semester) as a graduate student in SEMO.
2. If you are close to graduation, you need to apply for OPT. You cannot *apply* for CPT in the middle of your last semester. But, you *can do* internships during your last semester, IF you plan well and apply for it ahead of time.
3. NOT in good academic standing - you are applying for fall/spring internship and your GPA is <3.3. You cannot go for a 20-hour internship with 3 courses IF your GPA becomes low. We do not want you to be in academic probation after your CPT. 
4. Internship work has minimal or no relationship with your MS degree.

### Internship course vs regular course

Your internship work will count towards your coursework (e.g. mobile computing, data analytics, web development) OR internship course (i.e. **CS 699**), *but not both*. 

You cannot replace the internship course (CS699) with regular elective course. If you want to take CS699 internship course, then you must drop one of your elective courses.

You must indicate your course choice in the graduate advisor letter (see below).

### CS 699 course submission

Once you enroll into CS 699, you need to report about your internship progress from time-to-time on Canvas course page. 

*For evaluation*, you will be submitting a pdf of your progress report for midterm and end-term. At the end of the semester, your grad advisor will be assigning grades accordingly. 

### Grad Advisor Letter

The template is provided on our Faculty/Staff resources page and INTERNSHIPS at
<a href="https://semo.edu/international/faculty-resources.html" target="blank">https://semo.edu/international/faculty-resources.html</a> 

<a href="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/international-CPTAdvisorLetter.docx" target="blank">international-CPTAdvisorLetter.docx</a>


Pls fill the 2nd page of this attached doc. Pls send me the following documents:

1. PDF of your <a href="https://semo.edu/student-support/academic-support/registrar/degree-works/" target="blank" >DegreeWorks</a>
2. Current enrolled courses - pls state clearly which courses are online (Sec-740) or face-to-face (Sec-01) or hybrid (Sec-FX1)
3. Letter from your supervisor at the internship (employment letter)

I will send you a signed scanned copy of this form which you need to submit to IES. **Pls CC- your advisor in that email** for their verification.