---
title: Curricular Practical Training (CPT)
subtitle: "Subsection"
jobSpecific: "current"
categories:
    - cost
    - job
    - current
    - new
   
---

#### IES Information 

In order for  <a href="https://semo.edu/international/" target="blank">International Education and Services </a>**(IES)**  to approve CPT, you must be enrolled in a degree required internship course during the semester you will be completing the internship. 

#### Duration of CPT 

CPT is only granted for one semester and you can only work for: 

1. 20 hours per week during the fall or spring semester 

2. 40 hours during the summer 

3. this includes hours of on campus employment 

#### Full vs part-time CPT 

IF internship is for full-time (=40 hours), then you cannot take another course.  

IF internship is part-time (=20 hours), then yes you can take couple of courses. 

#### Documents needed by IES 

1. Graduate advisor letter, sent from the CPT advisor’s email. (They will reject any letter you send on your own.) 

2. Employment letter from supervisor. It should include the company name and address and the supervisor’s name, phone and email as well as the dates you will be working. (You will be responsible for sending them this letter.) 

#### Computer Science Dept Requirements 

**We will automatically deny your CPT request if you or your position do not meet all of the following criteria.** 

###### Student Criteria 

1. The student has completed at least 18 graduate credit hours (excluding CS 500 & CS 503). 

2. The student has completed at least one semester (Fall or Spring) at SEMO. 

3. The student has a GPA of 3.5 or greater. 

4. The student is not currently on academic probation. 

5. The student is in good academic standing. 

6. The student has never received a grade of C or below in any graduate level course at SEMO. 

7. The student has one remaining elective slot if they wish to enroll in CS699. If the student is using CPT as part of any other course, they must secure approval of the CPT component of the course from their instructor. 

##### Company and Job Criteria 

1. Companies will be verified using the following sources (they must be listed in both): 

    a.  <a href="https://www.buzzfile.com/Home/Basic  " target="blank">https://www.buzzfile.com/Home/Basic  </a>

    b. <a href="https://www.e-verify.gov/about-e-verify/e-verify-data/how-to-find-participating-employers  " target="blank">https://www.e-verify.gov/about-e-verify/e-verify-data/how-to-find-participating-employers </a>

2. The company has been in business for at least 10 years. 

3. The company has at least 20 employees. 

4. The company has revenue of at least $500,000.00 per year. 

5. **Note:** Smaller companies in the Cape Girardeau area may be approved if the internship is face-to-face and the company can be verified. 

6. The job description must satisfy the following criteria: 

    a. The job description must contain specific duties. Generic descriptions will not be accepted. These duties must be clearly stated in the job’s offer letter. 

    b. The offer letter must indicate if this is a full-time or part-time position. 

    c. The job duties to be performed must be related to the student’s degree program. 

    d. The job duties to be performed are of a level expected from master degree seeking students. 

    e. The beginning and ending date of the job must be clearly stated within the offer letter, and both dates must fall within the semester in which a CPT course is scheduled. 

#### Procedure and Deadlines 

To apply for CPT, you must submit all of the following to Dr. Robert Lowe <a href="mailto:rlowe@semo.edu">(rlowe@semo.edu)</a>: 

1. The offer letter from your employer, including contact information for your supervisor. 

2. PDF of your degree works page. 

3. Your CPT letter: <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/international-CPTAdvisorLetter.docx" target="blank"> international-CPTAdvisorLetter.docx </a> Be sure to fill in the relevant information, including course number (Either CS699 or a regular course.) For the advisor name, fill in “Dr. Robert Lowe” as he is the CPT advisor for the entire department. 

4. If you are submitting a CPT letter for a regular course, you must also attach a letter of approval to use CPT as a course component which must be signed by the course instructor. 

5. A listing of your currently enrolled courses. 

6. A listing of the courses you will be enrolled in during the CPT semester. 

If any of the above are missing, your application will be denied until you supply all of the necessary documents. The CPT process can take up to **3 weeks** to complete. You must submit your application no later than **4 weeks before the start of the CPT semester.** 

#### Internship course vs regular course 

Your internship work will count towards your coursework (e.g. mobile computing, data analytics, web development) OR internship course (i.e. **CS 699**), but not both. 

You cannot replace the internship course (CS699) with regular elective course. If you want to take CS699 internship course, then you must drop one of your elective courses. 

You must indicate your course choice in the international CPT graduate advisor letter (see above). 

#### CS 699 course submission 

Once you enroll in CS 699, you need to report about your internship progress from time-to-time on Canvas course page. You will be assigned a grade based on the evaluation of these reports. 

 
